President Obama: Hello.
(applause)
good afternoon.
To have the opportunity to talk to you all in Shanghai,
I am deeply honored.
I want to thank President Yang of Fudan University,
Thanks for his hospitality and warm welcome.
I also want to thank our excellent ambassador
Hong Bopei, he represents the profound relationship between our two countries
And mutual respect.
I don't know what he said just now, but I hope he said it well.
(laughter)
I’m going to make an opening statement today,
But what I really want to do is answer
Questions, not only answer the questions raised by the students present,
At the same time also answer some questions raised from the Internet,
These questions were asked by some students
Ambassador He Hongbopei proposed it on his behalf.
Sorry, my Chinese is not as good as yours
English, but I look forward to this opportunity to talk to you.
This is my first visit to China,
I am very excited to see your magnificent country.
In Shanghai, we have seen the development of global attention
Towering buildings,
Busy streets, entrepreneurial dynamics.
These are all signs that China has stepped into the 21st century.
I also look forward to seeing us
Historic site with a long history in China.
I will be in Beijing tomorrow and the day after tomorrow,
Hope to have a chance to see the spectacular Forbidden City
And the miraculous Great Wall.
Indeed, this is a rich history,
A country full of confidence in the hope of the future.
The same is true of the relationship between our two countries.
no doubt,
Shanghai is a city of great significance in the history of US-China relations.
It is here that the "Shanghai Communique" issued 37 years ago
Opened the governments and peoples of our two countries
Get in touch with a new chapter of communication.
However, the link between the United States and this city and this country
It can be traced back to a farther past, until the early days of American independence.
In 1784, George Washington, our founding father
Presided over the launching ceremony of the "Chinese Queen".
This boat headed to the coast of China,
Seek business with the Qing Dynasty.
Washington wants to see this American flag-flagged ship heading for
Around the world, forging new bonds with countries like China.
This is the usual American wish--
Hope to reach a new horizon,
Establish new and mutually beneficial partnerships.
In the next two centuries,
The torrent of history has made our relations
Going in many different directions,
But even in the turbulent years,
The people of the two countries have also seized the opportunity to develop deep, even extraordinary relationships.
For example, the American people will never forget,
During World War II, American pilots were shot down over China,
Chinese citizens risk losing everything
Take care of them.
Chinese veterans who participated in World War II are still warmly welcomed
American veterans who revisited
They once fought there to help China be liberated from occupation.
Nearly 40 years ago, a simple table tennis game
Brought about the thawing of relations between the two countries,
Let us establish another relationship between our two countries.
This contact is surprising, but it has contributed to its success,
Because despite the many differences between us,
But our common humanity and common curiosity can emerge from it.
As an American table tennis player recalled his visit to China:
"The people there are just like us... this country and the United States
There are many similarities and differences. "
Needless to say, this little opportunity brought
The advent of the "Shanghai Communique" eventually led to the United States and China
Established formal diplomatic relations in 1979.
Please see how much progress we have made in the next 30 years.
In 1979, the US-China trade volume
About 5 billion US dollars, today, the annual trade volume has exceeded 400 billion US dollars.
Trade affects the lives of the two peoples in many ways,
Many components in American computers
And the clothes we wear are imported from China,
We export to China the machinery your industry needs.
This kind of trade can create more jobs on both sides of the Pacific,
Let our people live a higher quality life.
As demand tends to balance,
The scope of prosperity will be further expanded.
In 1979, political cooperation between the United States and China
Mainly based on competitors faced by both parties
Soviet Union.
Now we enjoy a positive, constructive and comprehensive relationship,
For us on the key global issues of our time
Opening the door to partnership
These issues include: economic recovery and clean energy development, stopping the proliferation of nuclear weapons
And the effects of climate change, in Asia and around the world
Promote peace and security.
All these issues are the content of my meeting with President Hu tomorrow.
The content of the talks with Chairman Hu.
In 1979, the contact between our two peoples was very limited.
Today, we saw the curiosity of the table tennis players
Has become a bond in many fields,
Number of Chinese students in the United States
Ranked second, and among American students,
The number of people learning Chinese has increased by 50%.
There are nearly 200 friendly cities in our two countries that connect our communities.
U.S. and Chinese scientists collaborate on new research and discoveries.
And Yao Ming is just a sign that our two peoples love basketball.
Regrettably, I cannot watch this trip
The game of the Shanghai Sharks.
The relationship between our two countries has been accompanied by a period of positive change,
This is not accidental.
China has lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty,
This achievement is unprecedented,
At the same time, China is also playing a bigger role in global issues.
While the United States promoted the end of the cold war,
The economy has also grown,
The people's living standards have improved.
There is a famous saying in China:
"Know the old and know the new."
Of course, we have also encountered setbacks and challenges in the past 30 years,
Our relationship is not without differences and difficulties.
However, the concept of "we must be opponents" is not doomed
-This is not the case when looking back.
Thanks to our cooperation,
Both the United States and China are more prosperous and safer.
We have seen that we
Common interests and mutual respect to achieve what can be achieved.
However, the success of this contact depends on
Understanding depends on continuing open and open dialogue,
Understand and learn from each other.
As the American table tennis player mentioned earlier--
As people, we have many things in common,
But there are some differences between our two countries.
I think every country must plan its own direction.
China is an ancient country with a profound culture.
The United States is relatively young,
Its culture consists of immigrants from many different countries
And the founding program that guides my country’s democratic system
Formed.
These programs set forth a simple and clear vision of human affairs,
And contains some core principles-
Whether men and women are born equal,
All enjoy certain basic rights;
The government should reflect public opinion,
And respond to the wishes of the people; business should be open,
Information should flow freely;
Judicial protection should come from the rule of law rather than the rule of man.
Of course, our history is not without
Difficult chapter.
In many ways, for a long time,
We must achieve our commitment to all people through struggle,
Create a more perfect union.
We have fought a very painful Civil War,
Liberate part of our population from slavery.
Women have the right to vote,
Labor wins the right to organize,
Immigrants from all over the world are fully accepted-
These were all achieved after a period of time.
African Americans still live in isolation and inequality even after they are free,
They worked tirelessly
Only then will we win the full and equal rights.
None of this has been easy.
However, due to our firm belief in these core principles,
We have made progress, and these principles have guided us through the darkest storm.
This is why Lincoln can stand up in the Civil War
And announced that this is a test one
A country conceived in freedom, "faithful to the principle of equality in life"
Whether the struggle can last forever.
This is why Dr. Martin Luther King was able to stand on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial,
Require our country to practice its beliefs
True meaning.
This is why immigrants from China to Kenya
Be able to settle on our country's land;
Why everyone who seeks opportunities can get opportunities;
Why do people like me who have encountered difficulty in voting in certain parts of the United States less than 50 years ago,
Can now serve as the president of this country.
That’s why the United States has been around the world for these core principles
And shouted loudly.
We do not seek to impose any political system on any other country,
But we also don’t think the principles we advocate are
Unique to our country.
Freedom of expression and religious belief——
Freedom of access to information and political participation
We believe that these freedoms are universal rights,
Everyone deserves it,
Including minorities and religious minorities,
Whether it is in the United States, China or any other country.
It is the respect and guidance of universal rights that guides
The United States is open to other countries,
Respect various cultures,
Committed to compliance with international law,
And have faith in the future.
These are all things you should know about the United States.
I also know that China has a lot to learn.
Look around this great city——
Look around this hall-I am sure that our two countries
There is one very important thing in common,
That is our belief in the future.
Neither the United States nor China wants to be satisfied with what has been achieved and halts.
Although China is an ancient country,
But you are obviously full of confidence and ambition for the future
And make the younger generation better than this generation
More determined to act.
We not only admire China’s growing economy,
Also appreciate your extremely extraordinary efforts in scientific research-
From the infrastructure you build to the technology you use,
All reflect this effort.
China is now the world's largest Internet user —
This is why we are very happy to use the Internet as the event
Part of the reason.
This country currently has the world’s largest mobile phone network,
It is investing in development that can sustain sustainable growth,
New energy that can cope with climate change
I look forward to tomorrow in this vital area
Deepen the cooperation between the two countries.
However, most importantly,
I see the future of China in you-the wisdom, dedication and dreams of the younger generation
Will play a huge role in shaping the 21st century.
I have said it many times, and I believe our world is
Closely connected.
The work we do, the prosperity we build,
The environment we protect, and the safety we seek--
All of this is common.
Given this interconnectedness, in the 21st century,
Power should no longer be a zero-sum game;
The successful development of a country should not be at the expense of other countries.
This is why the United States firmly stated that we do not seek
Contain China's rise.
On the contrary, we welcome China to become a strong, prosperous,
Successful members-one from you
Among the rights, strength and creativity of every Chinese
China gaining power.
Go back to the old sentence mentioned earlier-look back.
We know that big powers choose cooperation rather than confrontation
Will bring greater benefits.
This is a lesson that mankind has continuously learned,
There are many examples in the history of relations between our two countries.
I am convinced that cooperation must go beyond cooperation between governments.
Cooperation must be rooted in our people—
Rooted in our joint research, our business activities,
What we have learned, and even our sports.
These bridges must be made by young people like you
Constructed together with young Americans.
Therefore, I am happy to announce that the United States is preparing
Number of U.S. students who will study in China
A substantial increase to 100,000.
This exchange is a clear commitment to establishing links between our two peoples,
There is no doubt that you will help decide
The fate of the 21st century.
I fully believe that for the United States, the best messenger
There is nothing like our young people.
Because they are as talented and energetic as you
Full of optimism about the history chapter to be written.
So let this move be the next step in our steady search for cooperation,
Such cooperation is beneficial to our two countries and the entire world.
If you can get a little inspiration from today’s dialogue,
I hope that is committed to continuing this dialogue in the future.
Thank you very much.
Now I hope to answer some questions from all of you.
thank you very much.
(applause)
I just want to
(President Obama touches the microphone)
Make sure this goes smoothly.
By the way, this is a type of direct dialogue in the United States
Very common traditional practice.
What we have to do is-
If you want to ask a question,
Just raise your hand.
I will call you.
I will alternately answer questions from the audience
Proposed by the students
Problems from the Internet,
Also, I think Ambassador Hong Bopei may mention one
Questions we collected through the embassy website.
Let's get started, let's take a look first-
Let me take this approach: first call a boy, then a girl,
Then-take turns so that everyone thinks fair.
Ok?
First of all, I would like to ask this young lady in the front row to ask questions.
Please wait for the microphone to speak, so that everyone can hear it.
What's your name?
Student on site: My name is...
I am a student of Fudan University.
Since 1985, Shanghai and Chicago have become sister cities,
The two cities conducted economic, political and cultural
A wide range of exchange activities.
So what steps will you take to deepen
This close relationship between the US and Chinese cities?
Shanghai will host the World Expo next year.
Will you take your family to visit the Expo?
Thank you.
President Obama: Thank you very much for raising this question.
Before I came here, I was having lunch with the mayor of Shanghai,
He told me that he and the city of Chicago--
My hometown-has an excellent relationship,
He has visited the city of Chicago twice.
I think it is very good to communicate between cities.
One of the contents of my discussion with the Mayor of Shanghai is,
How the two cities can learn from each other on the clean energy strategy,
Because one of the problems linking China and the United States is:
As the population grows and concerns about climate change,
How can we reduce the carbon footprint of our two countries.
Obviously, in the United States and many developed countries,
Calculated by population and average per person,
They use energy compared to the energy used by everyone here in China
Much more.
But as China grows and develops, it will also use
More energy.
Therefore, both countries are eager to find new strategies.
We talked about public transportation
And Shanghai is developing excellent track lines.
I think we are in Chicago
And the United States can learn from the excellent high-speed rail projects being built
Learn something.
In the US, I think we are learning
Build using less energy,
Buildings with higher energy efficiency.
And I know, as far as Shanghai is concerned-I came to see it all the way
So many cranes and so many new buildings under construction,
It’s very important that we start to absorb these new technologies,
This will make each building in terms of lighting,
Energy-saving in terms of heating.
So I think this is a learning from each other
Great opportunity.
I know that clean energy will become the
A main focus-
I learned this from the mayor of Shanghai.
So I will be happy to attend.
I still can't determine my future schedule;
But I am very happy that at the Shanghai World Expo
There will be a wonderful American Pavilion. I heard that there are expected to be
As many as 70 million people came to visit.
So here will be crowded, and it will be very exciting.
Chicago has held two World Expos in history,
The two World Expos have brought great impetus to the city.
I am sure that the same situation will appear here in Shanghai.
Thank you.
(applause)
Let's choose a question from the online questions.
Please introduce yourself, in case...
Translation: I speak Chinese first, then English, okay?
President Obama: Okay.
From the online question: I am...
From Shanghai...University.
The question I mentioned comes from the Internet.
I want to thank Mr. President
Visit China during the first year of your tenure,
Exchange opinions with us in China.
I want to know what your visit to China brings to China,
What will you bring back
United States?
(Translation for President Obama)
President Obama: Okay.
Ok……
(applause)
The main purpose of my visit is to deepen my understanding
China and China's outlook for the future.
I have had many meetings with President Hu.
We jointly participated in the response to the economic and financial crisis
G20 meeting.
We held consultations on a wide range of topics.
But I think the United States continues to deepen
Understanding of China is very important,
Just as China needs to continue to deepen
Learn about the United States.
As for my hope from this meeting
Or what have you seen from this visit,
In addition to taking this excellent opportunity to visit the Forbidden City and the Great Wall,
And meet with everyone here-these are the main contents-
(Microphone echo)
Oh – these are all, but apart from the mentioned,
I also intend to discuss an important point with Chairman Hu,
That is what Ambassador Hong Bopei said earlier,
There is no consensus between the United States and China,
It is impossible to overcome many global challenges.
Let me give a specific example,
This is the issue of climate change we just talked about.
The United States and China are the two largest greenhouse gas emission and carbon emission countries in the world.
This emission causes the earth to warm up.
As I said earlier, the United States, as a highly developed country,
Per capita energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions
Much higher than China.
On the other hand, China is growing faster,
More population.
Therefore, unless our two countries are willing to
Take key steps,
Otherwise, we cannot solve this problem.
At the Copenhagen conference scheduled for December,
World leaders will work hard to find a plan that will enable us all to make
Different commitments,
Differentiate the obligations undertaken by countries
Obviously, because there are so many poor people in China,
Therefore, it is not necessary to take exactly the same actions as the United States-
However, in planning how to reduce greenhouse gases,
All of us should assume certain obligations.
This example illustrates what I hope to see in this meeting-
I will exchange ideas with Chairman Hu,
Discuss how the United States and China can play a leading role together.
Because, I can tell you that other countries in the world will
Waiting for us.
They will observe our actions.
If they think the United States and China are not taking this issue seriously,
Then they will not take it seriously.
This is the leadership responsibility that our two countries now shoulder.
My hope is that through more and more discussions and dialogues,
We are able to show the world more of us in many of these
Leadership on key issues.
good or not?
Okay, here is...
(applause)
Now it’s boys’ turn,
right?
Let me ask this guy a question.
let me-
Audience: Good afternoon, Mr. President.
I come from Tongji University.
I want to quote a sentence from Confucius:
"Have friends come from afar".
There is a famous saying in The Analects
And different.
China advocates a harmonious world.
We know that the United States has formed a culture characterized by diversity,
What measures will your government take to build a
A diverse world composed of different cultures?
What measures will you take to respect other countries
Different cultures and history?
What can we do in the future?
President Obama: This is a very good point.
One of the advantages of the United States is that we have a very
Diversified culture.
We have people from all over the world.
Therefore, it is not clear what Americans look like.
Taking my own family as an example, my father is from Kenya,
My mother is from Kansas,
In the Midwest of the United States.
My sister is half of Indonesian descent and she married another Chinese
Canadian.
Therefore, we Obama
The gathering of the whole family is like the United Nations.
(laughter)
And this is where the power of America lies,
Because it means that we are from different cultures,
Different diets and different thoughts,
This makes our society more vibrant.
At the same time, every country
The interconnected world has its own culture, its own history and
Own tradition.
Therefore, I think the important thing for the United States is that it cannot
What I think is good for us will definitely give
Others bring benefits.
We are treating
The attitude of other countries should be modest.
But I must state that, as I said in the opening remarks,
We do think that some basic principles
Is common to all people,
Regardless of cultural background.
For example, at the United Nations, we are very active
Working hard to ensure children around the world
All enjoy certain basic rights—
If the child is exploited,
If they are forced to do child labor,
Although before
In many countries, including the United States, such things may have happened,
But all countries in the world should now develop to
The extent to which children can be treated in a better way than in the past.
This is a universal value.
I believe
The same is true of the attitude towards women.
I came to the mayor before coming here
Had lunch and had very interesting discussions,
He told me that now in Chinese universities
There are many professional school girls actually
There are more than boys, and their study is very good.
I think this is an excellent indicator of progress,
Because looking at developments around the world, you will see,
One of the most important indicators of the success of a country’s development,
Is the education of girls in the country and
The treatment enjoyed by women.
And those who can use women’s ingenuity and energy,
And a country that can provide them with a good education,
It usually has better economic development than those countries that do not.
Of course, different cultures have a relationship between men and women
May have different attitudes,
But I think the American view is that
We must declare the rights of women all over the world.
If we see women being oppressed in some societies,
No chance,
Or be subjected to violence, we will cry out loud.
Some people may not agree with us,
We can start a dialogue on this.
But we think it is necessary
Abide by our philosophy and values.
We do this,
When we do this, we must be humble and must realize
We are not perfect ourselves, and we still have to make progress on many issues.
If you ask American women, they will tell you,
There are men who have a role in women’s society
Still holding old ideas.
Therefore, we cannot say that we have solved all the problems,
But we believe that these universal ideas must be
And scream out these universal values.
Ok?
Ok.
The following question is to be answered via the Internet.
Questioner on behalf of netizens: Hello, Mr. President.
I am very honored to be here to meet you personally.
President Obama: Thank you.
On behalf of netizen questioner: My name is...I am from Shanghai
International...University.
I will read a question to you selected from the Internet,
This question was raised by a Taiwanese.
When asking questions, he said: I am from Taiwan,
Now doing business on the mainland.
Due to cross-strait relations
In recent years, it has continued to improve, and my business on the mainland is doing very well.
So when I heard someone in America
To propose-when we continue to sell weapons to Taiwan,
I started to feel very worried.
I am worried that this will damage the relationship between the two sides of the strait.
Therefore, Mr. President,
I want to know if you support improving cross-strait relations.
Of course, although this question was raised by a businessman,
But all young Chinese students are actually very concerned about this issue,
So we especially want to know your position on this issue.
Thank you.
President Obama: Thank you.
(applause)
I have always made it clear that this government
Fully support the one-China policy,
The three joint communiqués released decades ago
Our stated relationship with the People’s Republic of China and
Our relationship with Taiwan.
We do not want to change this policy and this policy.
I am very happy to see the tension easing
Improved relations with the two sides of the strait,
And I very much look forward to and hope that we can continue to see
Taiwan and the rest of China
Significantly improve the relationship when solving many of these problems.
I think that in the US foreign policy,
Also included in the policy to China,
Always seek is through dialogue and
Negotiate a solution to the problem.
We always think this is a better way.
And I think that the economic and trade links that are being established in this area
Helps relieve a lot
Before you were born, even before I was born, the tension was formed.
But some people still look back when considering these issues,
Instead of looking to the future.
I prefer to look to the future.
Like I just said, I think the business relationship is being established
When people think they can
When doing business to make money, there are some factors that make their ideas very clear,
Don’t worry too much about ideology.
I think this area has already begun to undergo this change,
And we very much support this process.
Ok,
It’s girls’ turn, isn’t it?
This is it.
Yes.
Wait a minute, let's—oh, sorry, they took the microphone back here.
Let me ask you the next question again.
Please say that I will come here later. please say.
please say.
Yes, please.
Thank you.
President Obama: I will ask you questions later.
President Obama: I will ask you questions later. I will call her first, then you.
please say.
Q: Okay, thank you.
Mr. President, I am a student of Shanghai Jiaotong University.
I would like to ask one about Nobel
The issue of the peace award.
In your opinion, the main reason why you won the Nobel Peace Prize
What is it?
It will give you more responsibility
And pressure to promote world peace?
It will do you
Does the idea of ​​dealing with international affairs matter?
thank you very much.
President Obama: Thank you.
This question is well mentioned.
I must say that no one is better than me
He was even more surprised to win the Nobel Peace Prize.
This is of course an honor. I don’t think my award is truly deserved,
Based on the glorious history of past winners.
I can only humbly accept this fact,
That is, it is the American people who moved the committee
And the kind that not only changed America,
And the possibility of changing the US policy towards the world.
So I think, in a certain way, although they awarded me this award,
But I am just a symbol, which represents us in dealing with international affairs
Efforts to change practices.
As for the burden I feel,
It is indeed a great honor for me to assume the presidency.
Whenever I complain about too much work,
My wife always reminds me: "You did this job voluntarily."
(laughter)
So you-there is a saying-
I don’t know if there is a similar proverb in China——
But we Americans will say, "You made the bed,
You have to sleep on it. "
The general idea is that you should be careful when making a wish,
Because you may really do what you want.
We all promote
The obligation of world peace.
This is not always easy.
The world still exists for many centuries
Unresolved conflicts.
Look at the Middle East, some wars and conflicts
It is based on the argument thousands of years ago.
In many places around the world, such as
Africa, there are still some difficult to solve
Ethnic and tribal conflicts.
Obviously, as the President of the United States,
One of the duties is to serve as the commander of the armed forces,
And my first priority is to protect the American people.
Due to the "9.11" attack and terrorist attacks around the world
Causing casualties to innocent people,
My responsibility is to ensure that we
Eradicate these terrorist organizations,
And cooperate with other countries to solve
Such violence.
However, although I don’t think we can completely
Eliminate violence between countries or nations,
I still think we can definitely reduce violence between peoples
Through dialogue,
Exchange of opinions and promotion
Understanding between nations and cultures.
Especially today, if only one person detonates
A bomb can cause massive destruction,
Therefore, we have worked harder than ever to advance the strategy for promoting peace.
Technology can be a powerful tool for the benefit of mankind,
But it also allows a few people
There is an opportunity to take advantage and cause great damage.
So I sincerely hope that when I meet with President Hu
And the continuous exchanges between the two sides, the United States and China can
Work together to reduce the conflicts that are occurring.
However, we have to do this, and when we use the army, we also need to think,
Because we are such a powerful country,
So we must always reflect on our actions,
Examine our motives and our own interests,
Make sure we don’t just
Because no one can stop us from using armed forces.
One of the responsibilities of a great country is to
Act responsibly in the international community.
I hope the United States and China
Ability to work together to create a reduction
International norms of global conflict.
it is good.
how about it?
(applause)
I will ask my ambassador to ask questions, I think he
There is a website through the embassy
Questions.
This is a selected question, I think it’s up to us
It was selected by the members of the American Journalist Group, so--
Ambassador Hong Bopei: Yes.
And it’s no surprise: "In a network of 350 million netizens,
60 million blogging countries,
Have you heard of firewalls? "
Second, "Should we be able to use Twitter freely?"——
This is the problem.
President Obama: First of all, let me say that I have never used Twitter.
I noticed that young people are busy with these electronic things.
My fingers are not working properly on the phone.
However, I believe in technology,
I believe in the openness of information exchange.
I thought that the more freely the information exchanged,
The stronger the society,
Because citizens of all countries in the world can
Accountability to your government.
They will start to think independently,
Thereby generating new ideas,
Encourage creativity.
Therefore, I have always been a supporter of the public use of the Internet.
I strongly support unregulated information.
This is also part of the American tradition I just said,
I recognize different countries
There are different traditions.
I can tell you that in the United States,
The free internet we have
In other words, unlimited internet access is a source of our strength,
I think it should be encouraged.
I should tell you, I should be honest,
As the President of the United States,
Sometimes I wish the information was not spread so freely,
Because then i won't always hear
Others criticized me.
I think people are natural-they will think when they are in power,
How can that person say me that way,
Or, that is irresponsible, and so on.
However, the fact is that because the information in the United States is
Free to communicate, many people in the United States criticized me,
Say I have everything,
I actually think this makes our democratic system stronger,
Also made me a better leader because this approach forced me to listen
Those opinions that I don’t want to hear,
Forced me to examine what I did every day,
See if i
I did my best for the American people.
I think the Internet has become this kind of citizen participation
More powerful tools.
In fact, one of the reasons I can be elected president,
It is because we can mobilize like you through the Internet
Young people's participation.
At the beginning, no one thought we could win because we did not
The support of the person with the most financial resources,
Nor is there the most powerful political broker.
But through the Internet, people have a passion for our campaign,
They started to organize,
Gatherings, arranging campaigns, events and gatherings,
Finally it became a real bottom-up movement,
So that we can do well.
And this is not just the case for government and political affairs,
The same is true for business.
Think about it, a company like Google, only 20 years ago--
Less than 20 years ago, from two
The idea of ​​someone no bigger than you.
At the time it was a technology project.
But suddenly, because of the Internet,
They can create a business for the world
New industries that bring change.
So, if it were not for the freedom and openness of the Internet,
There will be no Google.
Therefore, I strongly support not to use the Internet,
Restrictions are imposed on Internet access and information technologies such as Twitter.
The more open we are, the more able to communicate,
This will also help bring the world together.
Think about it-when I think of my daughter
When Maria and Sasha, they were 11 years old and 8 years old,
They can surf the Internet from their room,
Travel to Shanghai.
They can go to any place in the world, they can learn to understand
Anything they want to know.
What a power they have.
I think this helps to advance what we just talked about
That kind of understanding.
As I said earlier, technology always has a downside.
It also means that terrorists can
Organize online in ways that may not have been possible in the past
Extremists can mobilize.
Therefore, there are some costs for opening up,
This cannot be denied.
However, I believe that the benefits far outweigh the disadvantages,
It’s better to stay open.
This is the part of me that has internet on this forum
The reason for being happy.
May I?
I will answer two more questions,
I think the next question comes from a man, does he?
Yes, right here.
Give you the microphone.
Audience: First of all, I want to say that I am very honored to stand here
Ask you a question,
I think my luck is so good, your speech is so clear,
I don't need such a headset.
(laughter)
My question is this.
My name is... I am a student of the School of Management of Fudan University,
I want to ask you this question-
Someone has already asked you about a certain aspect of the Nobel Peace Prize,
I don’t want to ask the same question again,
I want to ask: to win such a high honor
It is very difficult.
I want to know, we all want to know,
How did you get it?
What kind of university education do you get,
Help you get such an honor?
We are all curious,
We would like to invite you to share your university education experience,
In order to embark on the road to success.
President Obama: First, I want to tell you, I don’t know
There is a syllabus or course that can guide you to win the Nobel Peace Prize.
(laughter)
So I cannot guarantee you.
But I think the secret to success is actually
You are already practicing.
There is no doubt that you all work very hard,
You are studying hard,
You are curious,
You are willing to think about new ideas and think for yourself.
You know, the most motivating winner I have encountered now,
Not only those who are willing to work very hard,
And always improve their own people,
They are constantly exploring new ideas,
Instead of just sticking to the rules.
Of course, the road to success varies,
Some of you will enter government agencies;
Some may want to be teachers or professors;
Some people may want to enter the business world.
But I think no matter what field you enter,
If you can continuously improve yourself,
If you do not do your best, you will never be satisfied, and keep asking new questions
"Can I still do it in different ways?"
Whether in the field of science and technology or art,
"Is there a new solution to the problem that no one has thought of?"
I think such people can usually
Outstanding.
I have one last suggestion,
This advice has benefited me a lot,
That is the successful people I admire most,
They are not just thinking about themselves, but also considering
Things beyond personal scope.
They want to contribute to society.
They hope for their own country, their own nation,
Contribute to your own city.
They hope to produce beyond
Influence outside of your personal life.
I think many of us will be busy making money for ourselves,
Buy a good car, buy a comfortable house——
All of these are important,
But those who really have a permanent impact on the world
It is because they have lofty ideals.
They asked themselves: How can I help more people avoid hunger?
How can I help children who have not gone to school to receive education?
How can I help resolve conflicts in a peaceful manner?
I think only such a person can end up
Have a major impact on the world
I believe that as long as young people like you
Keep working hard,
Can have such an impact.
how about it?
Ok, this is the last question, unfortunately,
time flies.
Finally answer a netizen’s question because I want to make sure
All three of our outstanding students have the opportunity to ask questions.
Questioner on behalf of netizens: Mr. President, it is an honor to ask the last question.
I am a student of Fudan University,
Today I am also a representative of Chinese youth...
I think this is a question from Beijing:
Very concerned about your Afghanistan policy.
He wondered whether terrorism was still
America's biggest security threat?
How do you assess military operations in Afghanistan?
Will it evolve into another Iraq war?
Thank you very much.
President Obama: I think this is a very good question.
First, I continue to think
The biggest threat to U.S. security
It is a terrorist network like Al Qaeda.
The reason is that although they are few in number,
But they have shown that they have no humanity,
Do not hesitate to kill innocent people.
Thanks to today’s technology, if such an organization
Get weapons of mass destruction--
For example nuclear weapons, chemical weapons or biological weapons--
And use it in a city, whether in Shanghai or New York,
A few people can kill tens of thousands
Even hundreds of thousands.
Therefore, this does constitute a great threat.
The reason we first entered Afghanistan is
Because "Al Qaeda" is there,
The Taliban accepted them.
Now they have crossed the Afghan border
Entered Pakistan, but they remained in the area
Networks established with other extremist organizations.
I am convinced that we need to achieve stability in Afghanistan,
To enable the Afghan people to protect themselves,
At the same time as a partner to help weaken
The power of these extremist networks.
Obviously this is a very difficult thing-
One of the most difficult decisions in my work is
Order the young people to go to the battlefield.
I often have to meet the parents of the fallen officers and soldiers,
Those soldiers can no longer go home.
This is a mental burden for me,
I feel sore about it.
Fortunately, our armed forces--
These young men in the army--
They firmly believe in dedication to the country,
Go to the front voluntarily.
I believe that through a wider alliance,
Including our NATO allies
And other allies who contribute — such as Australia —
We may help train Afghans to have a functioning government,
Have their own security forces,
Then we can gradually withdraw our troops,
Because by then there was no longer a vacuum formed after the Taliban stepped down.
But this is a difficult task,
It's not easy.
I think that to ultimately defeat these terrorist extremists,
We must understand that this is not just
A military operation.
We also need to know what drives young people into terrorists,
Why are they willing to act as suicide bombers.
Obviously, there are many different reasons,
This includes distortions of religion,
It makes people mistakenly believe that such violence is justified.
The reason why Pakistan and Afghanistan happened,
One of the reasons is that those young people have no education,
There is no enterprising opportunity, so they are in life
See no way out, which makes them think
That is the only option.
So one of the things we have to do in Afghanistan is
Find ways to train teachers, build schools,
Improve agriculture and give people greater hope.
Doing so will not change the ideas of Usama bin Laden’s,
Their ideology is deeply entrenched, it is to attack the West.
But doing so will change what they want to recruit
young people,
This is important.
In the long run, this is at least as important as any military action we can take,
Even more important.
Ok?
it is good. I feel very happy.
Thank you very much.
First of all, I want to say that I admire each of you for your English level,
Obviously you work hard.
The opportunity to meet you makes me feel
The future of US-China relations is full of hope.
I hope many of you have the opportunity to come to the United States
Travel and visit.
You will be welcomed.
I believe you will find the American people to the Chinese people
Is very enthusiastic.
I am convinced that with you young people
And the young Americans I know,
Our two great nations will continue to prosper,
And help create a more peaceful and secure world.
Therefore, thank you very much.
thank you all. 00:57:47.030,00:00:00.000 (applause)